Updating profiler tutorial to include new custom operator profiling (#15403)
apache/incubator-mxnet: docs/tutorials/python/profiler.md

The above picture visualizes the sequence in which the operators were executed and the time taken by each operator.

### Profiling Custom Operators

> Should the existing NDArray operators fail to meet all your model's needs, MXNet supports [Custom Operators](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/tutorials/gluon/customop.html) that you can define in python. In forward() and backward() of a custom operator, there are two kinds of code: `pure python` code (Numpy operators inclued) and `sub-operators` (NDArray operators called within foward() and backward()). With that said, MXNet can profile the execution time of both kinds without additional setup. More specifically, the MXNet profiler will break a single custom operator call into a `pure python` event and several `sub-operator` events if there is any. Furthermore, all those events will have a prefix in their names, which is conviniently the name of the custom operator you called.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Should the existing NDArray operators fail to meet all your model's needs, MXNet supports [Custom Operators](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/tutorials/gluon/customop.html) that you can define in Python. In `forward()` and `backward()` of a custom operator, there are two kinds of code: "pure Python" code (NumPy operators included) and "sub-operators" (NDArray operators called within `forward()` and `backward()`). With that said, MXNet can profile the execution time of both kinds without additional setup. Specifically, the MXNet profiler will break a single custom operator call into a pure Python event and several sub-operator events if there are any. Furthermore, all of those events will have a prefix in their names, which is, conveniently, the name of the custom operator you called.
```

> ![Custom Operator Profiling Screenshot](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/download/attachments/118172065/image2019-6-14_15-23-42.png?version=1&modificationDate=1560551022000&api=v2)

Reviewer 2: All MXNet images are served from dmlc/web-data repository. Let us create a PR in that repo to upload this image.

Author: I created a PR: https://github.com/dmlc/web-data/pull/192
After merging that PR the image should show up here.

Author: looks like that PR has been merged

> As shown by the sreenshot, in the `Custom Operator` domain where all the custom-operator-related events fall into, you can easily visualize the execution time of each segment of your custom operator. For example, we know that "CustomAddTwo::sqrt" is a `sub-operator` of custom operator "CustomAddTwo", and we also know when it is exectued accurately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As shown by the screenshot, in the **Custom Operator** domain where all the custom operator-related events fall into, you can easily visualize the execution time of each segment of your custom operator. For example, we know that `CustomAddTwo::sqrt` is a sub-operator of custom operator `CustomAddTwo`, and we also know when it is executed accurately.
```

Reviewer 2: Spell check. Sreenshot - Screenshot.
Even better wording would be -As shown in the below image.

> Please note that: to be able to see the above-dscribed information, you need to set `profile_imperative` to `True` even when you are using custom operators in [symbolic mode](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/tutorials/basic/symbol.html). The reason is that within custom operators, `pure python code` and `sub-operators` are still called imperatively.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that: to be able to see the previously described information, you need to set `profile_imperative` to `True` even when you are using custom operators in [symbolic mode](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/tutorials/basic/symbol.html). The reason is that within custom operators, pure python code and sub-operators are still called imperatively.  
```

> Please note that: to be able to see the previously described information, you need to set `profile_imperative` to `True` even when you are using custom operators in [symbolic mode](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/tutorials/basic/symbol.html). The reason is that within custom operators, pure python code and sub-operators are still called imperatively.  

Reviewer 2: Please add a code example as well. Makes it very clear for readers on how to use.

Author: I have created a new example and updated here accordingly. Now we have both code and screenshot

Reviewer 2: Can we please have a code example for showing 'profile_imperative' option when using in Symbolic Mode. It might not be clear for users where to set 'profile_imperative' to True.

Let's try profiling custom operators with the following code example:

```python

import mxnet as mx
from mxnet import nd
from mxnet import profiler

class MyAddOne(mx.operator.CustomOp):
    def forward(self, is_train, req, in_data, out_data, aux):  
        self.assign(out_data[0], req[0], in_data[0]+1)

    def backward(self, req, out_grad, in_data, out_data, in_grad, aux):
        self.assign(in_grad[0], req[0], out_grad[0])

@mx.operator.register('MyAddOne')
class CustomAddOneProp(mx.operator.CustomOpProp):
    def __init__(self):
        super(CustomAddOneProp, self).__init__(need_top_grad=True)

    def list_arguments(self):
        return ['data']

    def list_outputs(self):
        return ['output']

    def infer_shape(self, in_shape):
        return [in_shape[0]], [in_shape[0]], []

    def create_operator(self, ctx, shapes, dtypes):
        return MyAddOne()

inp = mx.nd.zeros(shape=(500, 500))

profiler.set_config(profile_all=True, continuous_dump = True)
profiler.set_state('run')

w = nd.Custom(inp, op_type="MyAddOne")

mx.nd.waitall()

profiler.set_state('stop')
profiler.dump()
```

> Here, we have created a custom operator called `MyAddOne`, and within its `foward()` function, we simply add one to the input. We can visualize the dump file in `chrome://tracing/`:

Reviewer 2: nit: spell check. 'foward()' -> 'forward()'

Author: fixed

![Custom Operator Profiling Screenshot](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/dmlc/web-data/master/mxnet/tutorials/python/profiler/profiler_output_custom_operator_chrome.png)

> As shown by the screenshot, in the **Custom Operator** domain where all the custom operator-related events fall into, we can easily visualize the execution time of each segment of `MyAddOne`. We can tell that `MyAddOne::pure_python` is executed first. We also know that `CopyCPU2CPU` and `_plus_scalr` are two "sub-operators" of `MyAddOne` and the sequence in which they are exectued.

Reviewer 2: nit: spell check. 'exectued' -> 'executed'

As shown by the screenshot, in the **Custom Operator** domain where all the custom operator-related events fall into, we can easily visualize the execution time of each segment of `MyAddOne`. We can tell that `MyAddOne::pure_python` is executed first. We also know that `CopyCPU2CPU` and `_plus_scalr` are two "sub-operators" of `MyAddOne` and the sequence in which they are executed.

Please note that: to be able to see the previously described information, you need to set `profile_imperative` to `True` even when you are using custom operators in [symbolic mode](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/versions/master/tutorials/basic/symbol.html) (refer to the code snippet below, which is the symbolic-mode equivelent of the code example above). The reason is that within custom operators, pure python code and sub-operators are still called imperatively. 

```python 
# Set profile_all to True
profiler.set_config(profile_all=True, aggregate_stats=True, continuous_dump = True)
# OR, Explicitly Set profile_symbolic and profile_imperative to True

> profiler.set_config(profile_symbolic = False, profile_imperative = False, \

Reviewer 2: True right?

Author: right, so sorry
